Let me guess… You’ve been enjoying your gorgeous glass shower door, but now you’re up against soap scum, hard water spots, and mineral deposits.

The battle is on and, if you following the tips below, you will be the winner!

So, what is the quickest and easiest way to keep those shower doors clean?

Like so many things in life, prevention is key, and it will help reduce build up and cleaning time.

How to prevent soap scum, hard water spots, and mineral deposits on glass shower doors

You can prevent buildup by using a squeegee, non-scratch sponge, or absorbent towel after each shower. Hang the squeegee in the shower as a reminder to use it every time. Be sure to wring out the sponge or towel after each use and allow it to dry.

Some people prefer spraying the doors with a 50/50 solution of vinegar and water. While others prefer to use a mixture made up of 1 cup water, ½ cup vinegar, a little dish soap, and 10-20 drops of essential oil or lemon juice. However, if you have a stone/tile shower, do not use vinegar as it may cause damage. Alternatively, you could use baking soda and liquid soap.

If your shower door is not ShowerGuard glass or other glass with a protective coating, you should consider adding glass protection. This could be a long-lasting brushed-on product such as ClearShield or a simple spray-on solution that you reapply frequently. 

Up your game by regularly cleaning the shower door glass

In spite of your best efforts, your shower door glass will need to be cleaned in order for it to stay shiny. Regular cleaning can prevent small issues from becoming big problems and can prevent corrosive elements from doing lasting damage to the surface of the glass.

To know how often to clean your shower glass, you should research the hardness of your tap water and seek care instructions from the company who installed your shower door. If you're using ShowerGuard glass or glass treated with Diamon-Fusion, their respective websites offer helpful cleaning guidelines.

As always, please follow instructions carefully for proper care of your shower door glass

To keep your shower door clean and shiny, be sure to use the right cleaning products. On a basic level, you want to avoid harsh and abrasive cleaning agents as well as scratchy, abrasive scouring pads. While such cleaning agents may remove soap scum and mineral deposits, they can also permanently damage the surface of your glass.

Once again, specific cleaning product recommendations are available for ShowerGuard glass and Diamon-Fusion coated glass. For standard glass, you can check the door manufacturer’s website or ask the company that installed it for cleaning tips.

Let us know how we can help you. 

Arrow Glass & Mirror, Inc. has proudly been serving customers in Central Texas since 1994.
